Setup a test server
=======

**The challenge**

When we put code into production (live), we obviously want everything to work. However, truth is, every single developer in the world makes mistakes.

However, if we put something live and something is broken, that results in:

- Bad experience for the user
- Possibly lose of revenue
- Potentially lost data (depending on mistake)

Many companies live like this. They put code into production, and pray it works. That is how most Wordpress and webshop installations work:
Pray for the best.

The challenge is it costs a lot of money - both to fix and lost revenue.

**The solution**

The solution is to remove 90% of mistakes, before they go live.

We do that by introducing a test environment. A test environment is a place where you can test the application before we go live. 

For websites it could be test.domain.com, where everything that is about to go live, will be there.

When you, as someone who really understands your own busines, tests your own application - our experience is you can catch a lot of the potential mistakes.

**How much does it cost?**

On average, a couple of hours to setup (2-5 hours in 90% of our cases). 
In some cases (depending on your hosting), there might be a minor extra monthly fee - sometimes it's free.

**Advanced test server(s)**

For customers who is doing a lot of work, we suggest a more advanced test-setup with a DEV (develop) and QA environment.

In this case:

- DEV (ie. test.domain.com) would be a playground for new features and functionality, used mostly by developers and to confirm something new looks correct.
- QA (ie. qa.domain.com) would be used just before new things go live. Here the customer can confirm everyhing is correct, before the switch to production is pulled.
